#labels Restrict-AddWikiComment-Commit
= Report an issue =

What kind of issue are you reporting?

== I see an ad! ==

Please don't report ads directly here.  Instead, turn on !AdBlock Options -> Advanced mode, then report them via the "Report an ad" link in the toolbar menu (Chrome) or Options -> Customize tab (Safari).

That way, we get all the information we need, and we know that it's not just a missing filter in a filter list or something.

== I'd like to request a feature! ==

OK, [http://code.google.com/p/adblockforchrome/issues/entry?template=Feature%20request%20from%20user tell us about it].

== !AdBlock is breaking one specific website ==

Here's a list of some really highly trafficked websites:
  * Gmail, Yahoo Mail, Windows Live Mail
  * Google+, Facebook, Twitter
  * Any other Google website (Google search, news, calendar...)
  * A large news website (Yahoo, CNN, BBC, New York Times...)

Is the broken website in this list?
[http://code.google.com/p/adblockforchrome/issues/entry?template=Defect2 Yes!]
[http://code.google.com/p/adblockforchrome/issues/entry?template=Defect No, it's another site.]

== !AdBlock is breaking many websites ==

Help us decide if this is an emergency or not.

It's an emergency if:
  * The bug happens _even if you never click !AdBlock's menus or buttons_
  * AND the bug affects _multiple_ websites
  * AND you suspect the bug affects _multiple_ people
  * AND it feels to you like an emergency
  * AND the bug breaks something _important_
    * important: "headlines are missing"
    * not important: "images are too far to the left"

[http://code.google.com/p/adblockforchrome/issues/entry?template=Defect No, it's not an emergency.]
[http://code.google.com/p/adblockforchrome/issues/entry?template=Defect2 Yes, it's an emergency!]