#summary What has changed between releases.
#labels Featured,Restrict-AddWikiComment-Commit

= Changelog =

Note that !AdBlock releases as quickly as possible to get improvements to our users, so our dot releases usually contain a single feature or fix.

== Versions ==

*2.3.14*: General cleanup and refactoring of helper functions

*2.3.13*: Make toolbar button tab-specific, so it looks right when multiple windows are open (Famlam)

*2.3.12*: Fix "Block an ad on this page" from toolbar immediately after right clicking page (Naesten)

*2.3.11*: Filter updates

*2.3.10*: Don't show context menu in Chrome Extension Gallery

*2.3.9*: Some resourceblock.html improvements and minor bugfixes (famlam, wormboy.d)

*2.3.8*: Highlight the element you're about to click in the blacklist wizard (wormboy.d)

*2.3.7*: jQuery and jQuery UI refresh

*2.3.6*: New advanced url-blocking wizard linked off of existing hiding wizard (famlam)

*2.3.5*: Try yet again to get the mac-specific Hide Button message correct

*2.3.4*: Fix a bug: whitelisting a page wasn't updating the toolbar icon immediately (famlam)

*2.3.3*: Show hide button message on install page too

*2.3.2*: Fix positioning of blacklist wizard (wormboy.d).  Fix hide button message bug on mac.

*2.3.1*: Tell Mac users workaround for hiding button, since Chrome 9 failed to ship Hide Button on Mac (famlam)

*2.3.0*: Add a toolbar button (again), retiring the Browser Button For !AdBlock extension.

*2.2.32*: Bugfix: new installation page was showing checked 'Show a toolbar button' checkbox

*2.2.31*: Bugfix on ad report page (john) and more thorough validation of custom blacklist entries (famlam)

*2.2.30*: Support opt-in to Google ads when not subscribed to !EasyList (famlam)

*2.2.29*: Localization updates, correct a URL scheme bug, and remove dead code

*2.2.28*: Support $document filter syntax, allowing individual pages to be whitelisted.  Also added $elemhide support. (Famlam)

*2.2.27*: Ignore filters if they contain unknown options (famlam)

*2.2.26*: Support requiresLocation in abp:subscribe links (famlam)

*2.2.25*: Handle new !EasyPrivacy filter that was breaking many websites

*2.2.24*: See which filter lists should be added to or removed from the options page.

*2.2.23*: In Chrome, reduce overall browser RAM usage by up to 30%, and decrease !AdBlock run time by about 50% :D

*2.2.22*: Validate filters on download instead of when inputting into filter engine, because we input into filter engine on every page load.  Saves 50ms per frame.  Goooo famlam! Also fix the parsing of `@@||$domain=domain.com` filters

*2.2.21*: New and improved Youtube ad blocking (famlam)

*2.2.20*: L10n typo

*2.2.19*: Change donation request to mention that this is now my full time job.

*2.2.18*: Bugfix for new frame blocking code

*2.2.17*: Keep youtube user-channel videos from autoplaying incorrectly (drewish).  Support frame,audio,video, and input type=image blocking (famlam).

*2.2.16*: typo...

*2.2.15*: Updated text description for web store launch

*2.2.14*: Fix broken Spanish translation.  jQuery-1.4.4 for speed improvements.  Small bugfixes and improvements.

*2.2.13*: Subscribe non-English-speakers to an appropriate Easylist sublist (Famlam)

*2.2.12*: Roll back chrome.tabs.insertCSS() work while we figure out how to make it run earlier and how to be specific for different iframes on a page.

*2.2.11*: Fix tagging typo

*2.2.10*: Use Chrome API for CSS hiding which should improve RAM and speed in Chrome.

*2.2.9*: Work around Chrome bugs related to chrome.tabs and SVG images.  'background' type now deprecated in filter lists.  Special cases for hotmail.com and hk-pub.com.  Add note to ad reporter about video ads not being blockable yet except in Youtube.  Speed up ad blocking in Chrome by removing a redundant regex parse. (All by Famlam!)

*2.2.8*: Use less memory in Chrome (famlam)

*2.2.7*: Vastly simplified mechanism for dealing with ads in Chrome that load before the filter engine is in place (famlam).  Also, we're now at 18 languages -- see http://bit.ly/AdBlockTranslations for the list and for credits!

*2.2.6*: Memory and speed improvements (famlam)

*2.2.5*: Don't let users try to block the BODY tag

*2.2.4*: typo

*2.2.3*: Move the browser button back into a separate extension until Chrome supports fully hiding browser buttons.

*2.2.2*: Make the Chrome right click menu disappear properly when requested or paused or whitelisted

*2.2.1*: Typo fix

*2.2.0*: Add a browser button to !AdBlock (integrating the Browser Button For !AdBlock extension.)  Also add support for pausing Chrome !AdBlock via the browser button.

*2.1.15*: Add indonesian translation, and improve memory usage in Safari.

*2.1.14*: Block background images even when they are specified in stylesheets (famlam).  Touchups to the UI for manual blacklist editing.  Fix typos in last release.

*2.1.13*: Warning popup to Chrome users that next week !AdBlock will be disabled as a necessary part of an upgrade, with instructions for re-enabling it.

*2.1.12*: Localized right-click menu text (famlam)

*2.1.11*: Memory savings in Chrome and probably some in Safari (famlam)

*2.1.10*: Revert to old Easylist and Easylist German URLs, per Wladimir Palant's (author of Adblock Plus) request

*2.1.9*: Safari users also lose the context menus if they choose to via the Options page

*2.1.8*: Quick patch to allow optional right click menus and to force Chrome 6 or higher, to get rid of permission error messages for Chrome 5 users.

*2.1.7*: Optimize Chrome RAM usage when 'Block most ads...' beta option is disabled

*2.1.6*: Replace keyboard shortcuts with right click menu items

*2.1.5*: Add or update German, French, Italian, Korean, Macedonian, Dutch, Polish, and Chinese translations.

*2.1.4*: Found a workaround for Safari crashes

*2.1.3*: Roll back to 2.0.25, because Safari is crashing something fierce.  Probably due to 2.1.0, but just in case 2.0.0.26 is the culprit (which was only released for an hour before 2.1.0) I'm rolling to .25.  This version will only be released to Safari.

*2.1.2*: A few remaining l10n tasks

*2.1.1*: Work around Gallery bug causing extension not to install...

*2.1.0*: Added internationalization support, and English Dutch and German translations (Famlam, plus John Rey providing German translation)

*2.0.26*: Remove whitespace in hotmail, update some filter list links, fix a bug in ad reporting page, and support filter list redirects -- all done by Famlam

*2.0.25*: Fix broken ad reporting link in Safari

*2.0.24*: Support object-subrequest a little better.  Ask for fewer ad reports to hopefully improve the signal to noise ratio.

*2.0.23*: Ignore certain filters that Webkit doesn't parse properly

*2.0.22*: Fix some Safari issues causing ads to slip through, and improve Chrome and Safari memory usage.

*2.0.21*: Many bugfixes and small improvements by Famlam; read the full list at adblockforchrome.googlecode.com under Source -> Changes

*2.0.20*: Chrome shouldn't emulate true blocking in subframes because each one costs a fixed amount of RAM and some pages have *lots* of subframes.

*2.0.19*: Revert messed up grayscale icon for Safari toolbar

*2.0.18*: Work around Chrome bug causing Google Calendar to render incorrectly in some cases

*2.0.17*: Bandaid to fix collapse-blocked-elements hanging on some websites

*2.0.16*: Correct third-party and first-party and match-case support (famlam)

*2.0.15*: Respect filter subscription expiration dates (famlam)

*2.0.14*: Give icons a new look (thanks tgines!), and don't lose the current tab when reloading the Options page

*2.0.13*: Fix bug with "Collapse Blocked Elements" beta feature

*2.0.12*: Blacklist UI shows full effect of proposed rule. (famlam)

*2.0.11*: Support collapsing empty ad holding elements, and auto-subscribe
!EasyList if you subscribe to an !EasyList additional list (famlam)

*2.0.10*: Fix some filter rule parsing bugs and a small UI bug (famlam)

*2.0.9*: Grr, turns out Gmail needs a special case to work around a bug in Chrome that makes CC and BCC fields disappear onclick.  Put the special case back in.

*2.0.8*: Remove an old facebook layout hack that may be affecting safari

*2.0.7*: Before a user reports an ad via the blacklist wizard, point him to a helper that makes sure he's got up to date subscriptions, and that the ad doesn't appear in Firefox (if he has Firefox.)  (Famlam)

*2.0.6*: Remove an old gmail special case

*2.0.5*: A few blacklist UI fixes (famlam)

*2.0.4*: Subscribe to filter lists when you click on abp:subscribe links on the web.  I *still* don't understand how Famlam pulled this off.  Only works in Chrome.

*2.0.3*: Remove a workaround no longer needed

*2.0.2*: Add !EasyPrivacy (now that we mostly block resources from downloading) and remove Germany (an out of date filter that !EasyList+additional German filters replaces)

*2.0.1*: Resource blocking works in Chrome Stable after all, so get Stable users in on the goodness too.

*2.0.0*: True blocking of resources in Chrome 6.  Most resources can be blocked before they're even downloaded.  Because Chrome doesn't fully support resource blocking yet, a few resources will load so quickly that the resource blocker will miss them, and they'll be removed after the fact as usual.

*1.4.36*: Workaround #2 for Safari crashes

*1.4.35*: Custom blacklist editing in Options, now supporting arbitrarily-complex URL-based or CSS-based blacklist and whitelist rules, while still keeping a simple interface for people who aren't comfortable with filter syntax. (famlam)

*1.4.34*: Workaround to avoid safari crashes until safari team fixes safari

*1.4.33*: Prevent empty element flashup in Safari

*1.4.32*: New filter list options (drewish), better element clicking in blacklist wizard (famlam), fix some issues with removing unsubscribed custom filter lists.

*1.4.31*: Fix bug in .30 keeping Safari users from seeing Options page

*1.4.30*: Now supported in Safari as well -- see safariadblock.com

*1.4.29*: Add caching to making CPU usage even better when many DOM nodes are inserted.

*1.4.28*: Fix high CPU usage on sites that insert lots of DOM nodes after loading.

*1.4.27*: Lots of changes:
  * Edit support in blacklist UI (by Famlam)
  * 'Remove' labels by custom filter lists (by Famlam)
  * New filter subscriptions available (by Drewish)
  * You can press enter in textboxes on the Options pages to submit data (by Famlam)
  * Make blacklist and whitelist more robust against page CSS (by Famlam)

*1.4.26*: 5 filter list additions and corrections (by Drewish).  A slider on the whitelister, an edit button on the whitelist options page, support for IP whitelisting (by Famlam).

*1.4.25*: Fix regression: we stopped working around a Chrome 4 bug; blacklister can now also create 'href' and 'data' filters.

*1.4.24*: Provide links to filter subscriptions from options page (by famlam).

*1.4.23*: Corrected a couple filter parsing bugs.

*1.4.22*: Workaround Chrome bug regarding removing SCRIPT elements.

*1.4.21*: Theme tweaks

*1.4.20*: Support the $third-party filter directive.

*1.4.19*: Correctly block OBJECTs with multiple < param > tags

*1.4.18*: Point to new options page from youtube

*1.4.17*: Tabbed Options page (by drewish).

*1.4.16*: Fix Google Reader ads, which regressed somewhere at or before v1.4 release; added 'Edit' label after a custom blacklist entry (by famlam).

*1.4.15*: Added changelog link to Options page; improved CSS for blacklister (by drewish and famlam).

*1.4.14*: Add Italian filters.

*1.4.13*: Move custom rules to chromeadblock.com.

*1.4.12*: !EasyList+Corset has become just Corset (Korean filters.)

*1.4.11*: Detect and handle bad selector syntax that broke !ChinaList.

*1.4.10*: Improved CSS for blacklister.

*1.4.9*: Small fix for when a user manually subscribes to a well-known filterlist.

*1.4.8*: Correct the error message upon internet failure during subscribing to a filter.

*1.4.7*: Add support for type directives in filters, so if they only want to apply to $images and $stylesheets, we don't apply them to $objects.

*1.4.5-1.4.6*: Pointing to the new location of Korean filterlist.

*1.4.0-1.4.4*: Improved and simplified filtering system under the hood.

*1.3.49*: Allow user to close (and never see again) the youtube help message.

*1.3.48*: Revert 1.3.46; it slowed down most websites.  Working on a correct solution.

*1.3.47*: Band-aid over badly parsed !RuAd filter until a correct solution can be written.

*1.3.46*: Remove, don't just hide, Flash ads, to save CPU.

*1.3.45*: Add X icon to blacklister and whitelister dialogs.

*1.3.44*: Switch back to !RuAd russian filter list.

*1.3.43*: Auto-complete the description field as well.

*1.3.42*: Auto-complete the summary on ad reports from the "Frustrated?" link.

*1.3.41*: Alphabetize filter list (only new users will see the change.)

*1.3.40*: Fix bug that broke the "Update Now" button.

*1.3.39*: Fix slashdot effect from .37, and adhere to 5-day updates per !EasyList maintainers' request.

*1.3.38*: Log only successful manual filter subscriptions, to determine which should be added to the standard list.

*1.3.37*: Get latest versions of all filters upon Chrome startup.

*1.3.36*: Improved the beta !YouTube ad blocking feature; plus a message telling users how to work around problems or disable the feature if they're having trouble.

*1.3.35*: Handle uppercased blacklist or whitelist manual entries correctly.

*1.3.34*: Standardize whitelist and blacklist UIs more, and don't let CSS from underlying page bleed through.

*1.3.33*: No more alert on acid3 test -- Chrome gets to 100/100 even with !AdBlock.

*1.3.32*: Working around a webkit bug in a very general way, so hopefully this is the last changelog entry of this type!

*1.3.31*: Handle ksplice.com

*1.3.30*: Retire "Prevent ad flashup" as an option -- now it's always true.

*1.3.29*: Disallow z-indexes higher than the blacklist wizard's, upon wizard opening.  This keeps websites from hiding the wizard behind their ads or other content.

*1.3.28*: Working around a webkit bug.

*1.3.27*: Working around a webkit bug.

*1.3.26*: Working around a webkit bug.

*1.3.25*: Now blocking background image ads.

*1.3.24*: Now handling the '(Adblock' case when importing filters. Working around a webkit bug that hasn't merged into Chrome stable yet.

*1.3.22*: Working around a webkit bug that hasn't merged into Chrome stable yet.

*1.3.21*: Tooltip on filter list names showing the URL you're subscribing to.

*1.3.20*: Fixes hole in Options page where a script tag in blacklist would run the script.

*1.3.19*: The adp:subscribe syntax is coverted to the proper url. URLs that don't point to filter subscriptions are not supported.

*1.3.18*: Working around a webkit bug that hasn't merged into Chrome stable yet.

*1.3.17*: Added helpful buttons for contributors.

*1.3.16*: Added a Donate button to the Options page.

*1.3.15*: Remove two experiments from the Contributors section that didn't pan out.

*1.3.14*: Possibly fixes bug that makes !AdBlock stop working when leaving Chrome open overnight.

*1.3.13*: Fixes bug that let whitelister open multiple dialog boxes.

*1.3.12*: Working around a webkit bug that hasn't merged into Chrome stable yet.

*1.3.11*: Added !YouTube in-video ad blocking.  Based heavily on !AdThwart's code.

*1.3.10*: Allow blacklist entries in easylist syntax.

*1.3.9*: Created an initial CHANGELOG file.

*1.3.8*: Fixed a problem with converting to the new Russian list.

*1.3.7*: Added Danish filter subscription.

*1.3.6*: Working around a webkit bug that hasn't merged into Chrome stable yet.

*1.3.5*: Point to a new Russian subscription list.

*1.3.4*: HTML updates to Options page.

*1.3.3*: Point users to bug tracker on the Options page.

*1.3.2*: Working around a webkit bug that hasn't merged into Chrome stable yet.

*1.3.1*: Attempt to point to a new Russian subscription list.

*1.3.0*: Initial import.

== Changelog for the "Browser Button For !AdBlock" extension ==

*0.0.12*: Fix the link to the options page.

*0.0.11*: Fix incorrect click behavior in the menu.

*0.0.10*: Gray out the button on sites where !AdBlock can't run (e.g. about:blank).

*0.0.9*: Re-enabled the extension because people didn't like the inability to hide the button in !AdBlock.

*0.0.8*: Disabled extension while !AdBlock had the button integrated.

*0.0.7*: Pointing to the new location of the options page.

*0.0.6*: Don't bomb when someone tries to whitelist a `file://`.

*0.0.5*: Turn icon green if a domain is whitelisted.

*0.0.4*: Handle different Chrome themes correctly.

*0.0.3*: Link to installation page within popup.

*0.0.2*: Link to !AdBlock extension Options page.

*0.0.1*: Initial version.