#summary The FAQ.
#labels Featured,Restrict-AddWikiComment-Commit

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= About the project =

== Who made !AdBlock? ==

I'm Michael Gundlach, a developer in Georgia in the US.  Hi!  I created !AdBlock in 2009.  In 2010 I quit my job to work solely on !AdBlock, so my wife and I rely on [https://chromeadblock.com/pay/ your support] for our income.

In addition to financial support, anyone can [HowToContribute contribute code or time] to the project.  About a dozen [http://code.google.com/p/adblockforchrome/people/list contributors] have [Changelog done so] over the years.

Recently the contributor Famlam added Opera support to !AdBlock, and maintains that code.

== How does !AdBlock work? Do I have to configure it? ==

!AdBlock automatically blocks all ads on web pages for you, with no configuration necessary.  As soon as you install it, you can open a tab to nytimes.com (for example), and there will be no ads on the page.

!AdBlock works by reading lists of all known ads on the internet.  Anything listed is blocked from loading in your browser.  !AdBlock doesn't control what goes on the lists; they are [ListAuthorContacts maintained by volunteers].

== Is !AdBlock available on the iPhone/iPad/Android? ==

Nope.  It's only available on [https://chromeadblock.com Chrome], [https://safariadblock.com Safari], and [https://addons.opera.com/extensions/details/adblockforopera/ Opera].

== Is !AdBlock available on Firefox or Internet Explorer? ==

Nope.  It's available on [https://chromeadblock.com Chrome], [https://safariadblock.com Safari], and [https://addons.opera.com/extensions/details/adblockforopera/ Opera].  There's an unrelated project for Firefox called [https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/adblock-plus/ Adblock Plus] that works great.  If you're on IE, I recommend switching to Chrome :)

<hr>

= Using !AdBlock =

== !AdBlock disappeared / isn't working right! ==

Sorry to hear that!  We can [http://code.google.com/p/adblockforchrome/wiki/GetHelp?tm=3 walk you through] fixing or reporting your problem.

== How do I block an ad? ==

Ads are blocked for you automatically, but if something slipped by !AdBlock, you can block it for yourself.  Just click the !AdBlock toolbar button and choose "Block an ad on this page", or simply right-click the ad itself and choose "Block this ad".

== I blocked too much!  How do I undo it? ==

Click the button and choose "Undo last block" if it's available. Otherwise: blocking an ad adds a new "filter" to the list on the the Customize tab on the !AdBlock toolbar button -> Options page. You can click Edit on that list, remove the filter, and click Save.

== How do I tell !AdBlock not to run? ==

You can pause !AdBlock, or tell it to never run on certain websites, under the !AdBlock toolbar button menu.

== I see an ad!  How do I report it? == 

You can block an ad for yourself if you'd like (see [FrequentlyAskedQuestions#AdBlock_disappeared_/_isn't_working_right! these instructions]); or you can report it so that it will be blocked for everyone.

Don't report ads in the Issue tracker.  Instead, do the following:

   # Click the !AdBlock toolbar button -> Options -> General -> "Show me advanced options"
   # Click the !AdBlock toolbar button -> Report an ad

_Note: "Report an ad" doesn't exist yet for Opera users, who should report ads [http://code.google.com/p/adblockforchrome/issues/entry?template=Ad%20report%20from%20user&comment=1.%20Exactly%20where%20on%20that%20page%20is%20the%20ad%3F%20What%20does%20it%20look%20like%3F%20Attach%20a%20screenshot%20with%20the%20ad%20clearly%20marked%2C%20if%20you%20can.%0A%0A%0A2.%20Paste%20a%20working%20filter%2C%20if%20you%20have%20one%3A%0A%0A%0A3.%20Any%20other%20information%20that%20would%20be%20helpful%2C%20besides%20what%20is%20listed%0Abelow%3A%0A%0A%0A4.%20In%20what%20language%20is%20the%20page%20written%3F%0A%0A%0A5.%20The%20exact%20URL%20to%20the%20page%20with%20the%20ad.%20(This%20is%20the%20exact%20text%20you'll%20see%20in%20the%20address%20bar)%0A%0A%0A6.%20Which%20filter%20lists%20are%20you%20subscribed%20to%3F%20(Default%20isn't%20an%20answer%20here%3B%20the%20defaults%20depend%20on%20your%20location)%0A%0A%0A%0A7.%20Which%20version%20of%20Opera%20are%20you%20using%3F%20(Latest%20isn't%20an%20answer%2C%20if%20I%20see%20this%20issue%20next%20year%2C%20it%20certainly%20isn't%20the%20latest%20version%20anymore)%0A%0A%0A%0A8.%20What%20version%20of%20AdBlock%20are%20you%20using%3F%0A%0A%0A%0A9.%20What%20settings%20are%20enabled%20in%20the%20first%20tab%20of%20the%20options%20page%3F%0A%0A%0A%0A10.%20What%20custom%20filters%20are%20you%20using%3F%20This%20is%20the%20content%20of%20the%20big%20text%20box%20on%20the%20third%20tab%20of%20the%20options%20page.%0A here]._

You'll get the fix automatically a few days after your report is processed.

== How do I report that !AdBlock is blocking a non-ad? ==

!AdBlock reads lists of filters to know what to block.  It may be that one of those lists has a bad filter.  In that case, don't report it in the Issue tracker: !AdBlock doesn't maintain the lists.  Instead, follow [#How_do_I_hunt_down_a_bad_filter? these instructions] to find the bad filter, then report it to the [ListAuthorContacts correct filter list maintainer].

== How do I uninstall !AdBlock? ==

Chrome: Right click the !AdBlock toolbar button and choose "Remove from Chrome".

Safari: Safari menu -> Preferences -> Extensions -> !AdBlock Uninstall.

Opera: Opera menu -> Extensions -> Manage Extensions -> Uninstall.

== How do I remove or add the !AdBlock toolbar button in Safari? ==

*OS X*: To remove the button from the toolbar, simply right click the button and select "Remove Item".

*Windows*: Click the gear icon -> "Customize Toolbar". Now drag the icon off the toolbar.

To add the button to the toolbar click on "View" or the gear icon in the menubar, then on "Customize Toolbar..." and drag the button with the !AdBlock logo back on the toolbar.

<hr>

= Common problems =

== !AdBlock doesn't work in Incognito/private mode. ==

Extensions don't run in private/Incognito mode by default.  To change this:
   # In Chrome: go to chrome://extensions and check 'Allow in incognito'.
   # In Opera: click the Opera menu -> Extensions -> Manage Extensions -> !AdBlock's wrench -> Privacy, and check "Allow interaction with private tabs".

== !AdBlock doesn't work on a secure (https) site in Opera. ==

To allow !AdBlock to run on https sites, click the Opera menu -> Extensions -> Manage Extensions -> !AdBlock's wrench -> Privacy, and check "Allow interaction with secure pages".

== My browser won't update to the latest version of !AdBlock. ==

Chrome: because !AdBlock is so popular, updates take a few weeks to roll out.  You can [http://chromeadblock.com/help/outofdate force it to update] if you're impatient.

Safari: You may have auto-update of extensions turned off.  Turn it on under Safari -> Preferences -> Extensions -> Updates.  You can also be sure to update to the latest version by reinstalling from safariadblock.com.

Opera: If a new version has just been released, it may take a few days until the extension is up to date again. If it's still not up to date after a week, please check that you are using the default values for `opera:config#AutoUpdate|Add-onsCheckInterval`.

== I see ads in a video in Safari. ==

See [GetHelp here].

== In Opera, I see a warning that not all features are functional and that ads may show up. ==

You'll see this in all Opera versions less than 12.10.  Don't worry, the effects aren't that bad.  !AdBlock uses a list of rules to block ads, and pre-12.10 versions of Opera can't support some of those rules, that's all.  Once you update to Opera 12.10, all disabled functionality will be enabled automatically.

== When I install, Chrome warns me that !AdBlock will have access to "Your data on all websites" and "Your tabs and browsing activity"! ==

!AdBlock has the *ability* to access this data, but it doesn't actually access it.  !AdBlock needs this permission in order to run on every page, so that it can block ads for you; that's all.  Nothing sneaky is going on.

It comes down to *trust*: you should not install extensions that ask for more permission than you are comfortable with, unless you trust the author(s).  !AdBlock is the most popular extension for Chrome, partially because we care so much about our users -- so we hope you'll trust us :)

<hr>

= Other =

== Does !AdBlock actually prevent ads from downloading? ==

Yes!  Ad scripts, images, and Flash are not sent to your computer, saving you bandwidth.

== Can I synchronize my settings and filters among multiple computers? ==

Not automatically.  You can manually set your settings the same, of course, and copy-and-paste your custom filters (from the !AdBlock toolbar button -> Options -> Customize tab) between computers.

== Can I import my filters from Adblock Plus for Firefox? ==

Yes, you can, by copying them to the clipboard, then pasting them into the list on the !AdBlock toolbar button -> Options -> Customize tab.

== What's different in the Opera version? ==

Mostly due to limitations in Opera, !AdBlock is missing the ad reporting wizard, the resource list, and the ability to whitelist only part of a website.  We'll add back these features when we can.

== How do I hunt down a bad filter? ==

!AdBlock reads lists of filters to know what to block.  If something is being blocked that shouldn't be blocked, here's how to hunt down which filter is the problem.

Important: whenever you change your filters, it doesn't take effect on a tab until you reload the tab.

STEP ONE: Make sure the bad filter isn't one of the Options -> Customize filters which you have added yourself.
  1. Delete all filters in the Options -> Customize textbox and click Save.
  1. If the problem is gone, put them back one at a time until you find the bad filter.  Otherwise, go to STEP TWO.

STEP TWO: Find the bad list.
  1. Unsubscribe from all filter lists under Options -> Filter Lists.
  1. Subscribe to each of your lists individually until you find the one that brings the problem back.
  1. Unsubscribe from all filter lists again.

STEP THREE: Copy the bad list's filters into your Customize textbox.
  1. Turn on Options -> General -> Advanced Mode.
  1. Click Options -> Filter Lists -> Show Links To The Filter Lists.
  1. Click the link next to the bad list to see its contents.
  1. Copy the entire contents of the bad list.
  1. Paste into the Options -> Customize textbox.
  1. Verify that the problem is back.

STEP FOUR: Delete filters until only the bad filter remains.
  1. Reload the tab with the problem.
  1. If the problem is still there, delete the first half of the contents of the Customize textbox and click Save, then go to step 1.
  1. If the problem is gone, you deleted the bad filter.  So undo your delete in the textbox using Control-Z (Apple-Z on a Mac) and delete the second half of the contents instead; then go to step 1.

After about 10 of those delete-check-repeat cycles you should have it narrowed down to the single bad filter causing you trouble.

Finally, you can report the bad filter to the [ListAuthorContacts maintainer of the bad filter list].

== What filter lists should I use? ==

If you speak multiple languages, you may wish to use filter lists for those languages.  Otherwise, just use the defaults that !AdBlock chooses.  Using unnecessary lists slows down !AdBlock and wastes bandwidth for the list maintainers.

<hr>

= Where can I ask a question or get in touch? =

Send an email to adblockforchrome-discuss@googlegroups.com or post it [http://groups.google.com/group/adblockforchrome-discuss via the web interface] -- we're always listening!