#summary Get help with an AdBlock problem.
#labels Restrict-AddWikiComment-Commit,Featured

=Having trouble with !AdBlock? =

Sorry to hear that!  You've come to the right place.
<br/>

== Is this your problem? ==

 * Did Chrome just disable !AdBlock and ask you to *confirm new permissions*?
   * This is a bug in Chrome 16 which I triggered when I added popup blocking to !AdBlock in version 2.5.15 -- sorry!  I've since taken it back out while the Chrome bug is being fixed.
   * *It is safe to confirm the permissions*; nothing sneaky is going on and they haven't actually changed since when you installed.  You can read the [http://code.google.com/p/adblockforchrome/wiki/FrequentlyAskedQuestions#Why_did_Chrome_disable_AdBlock_and_make_me_accept_crazy_new_perm detailed explanation] if you have any concerns.
   * *You can help me a lot* by going to [https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/gighmmpiobklfepjocnamgkkbiglidom/reviews AdBlock's review page], clicking Recent, and marking as unhelpful reviews from users who were confused (or removing your own negative review).  Thanks for your help.

 * Did !AdBlock suddenly *stop working* in Chrome?
   !AdBlock was probably disabled by a recent bug in Chrome (see above).  The surefire way to get the fix is to uninstall (go to chrome://extensions -> !AdBlock -> Remove) and reinstall (go to http://chromeadblock.com/ and click Add To Chrome.)

 * Are you seeing *infinite error message* when you start Safari?
   This is fixed in !AdBlock 2.4.33.  After force quitting Safari, you can uninstall !AdBlock via Safari -> Preferences -> Extensions -> !AdBlock -> Uninstall, then reinstall from safariadblock.com to fix the problem.

 * Did !AdBlock *stop working in Safari*?
   This is fixed in !AdBlock 2.4.33.  [http://code.google.com/p/adblockforchrome/wiki/HowToFixIt#2._Make_sure_you_have_the_latest_version_of_AdBlock_for_Safari_i Get the latest version] and !AdBlock should no longer randomly stop working.  If you tried this and that's not your problem, see below.

 * Are you *seeing !AdBlock's install screen* every time you start your browser?
   In Safari, this is fixed in !AdBlock 2.4.33; [http://code.google.com/p/adblockforchrome/wiki/HowToFixIt#2._Make_sure_you_have_the_latest_version_of_AdBlock_for_Safari_i get the latest version] for the fix.  In Chrome, follow step 5 in the "5 easy steps" below.

 * Are you seeing *broken image popups or slideshows* in Safari?
   This is a [https://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=45586 Safari bug] that will be fixed in an upcoming version of Safari.

 * Are you seeing *ads in videos or Flash games*?
   If you have Chrome, this will go away as soon as you update to Chrome 17 (currently in Beta).  Unfortunately for Safari users however, this is a known limitation in Safari.  Only Youtube videos get their ads blocked, and then only some of the time.  You can install [http://www.google.com/landing/chrome/beta/ Chrome on your Mac] and then [http://chromeadblock.com/ AdBlock For Chrome] to get video ad blocking.

 * Are you seeing some other *ad that should be blocked*?

   To report the ad, please do the following:

   # Turn on Advanced mode under the !AdBlock toolbar button -> Options -> General
   # In Chrome: click the toolbar button -> Report an ad
   # In Safari: click the toolbar button -> Customize -> Report an ad

   You'll get the fix automatically a few days after your report is processed.

== Most other problems are fixed by these 5 easy steps! ==
 # Make sure !AdBlock is up to date ([HowToFixIt#2._Make_sure_you_have_the_latest_version_of_AdBlock_for_Chrome_i Chrome instructions], [HowToFixIt#2._Make_sure_you_have_the_latest_version_of_AdBlock_for_Safari_i Safari instructions])
 # Make sure your browser is up to date.  ([HowToFixIt#1._Make_sure_you_have_the_latest_version_of_Google_Chrome_instal Chrome instructions], [HowToFixIt#1._Make_sure_you_have_the_latest_version_of_Safari_installed Safari instructions])
 # Reboot your computer.
 # Uninstall and reinstall !AdBlock. ( [HowToFixIt#4._Uninstall_and_reinstall_AdBlock_for_Chrome Chrome instructions], [HowToFixIt#4._Uninstall_and_reinstall_AdBlock_for_Safari Safari instructions])
 # Delete !AdBlock's !LocalStorage file.  ([HowToFixIt#5._Delete_the_LocalStorage_file_of_AdBlock_for_Chrome  Chrome instructions], [HowToFixIt#5._Delete_the_LocalStorage_file_of_AdBlock_for_Safari Safari instructions])

== Other known problems ==

  * These features break !AdBlock and should be disabled:
    * *Lazy Background Pages* in Chrome
    * *Multi-process windows* in Safari
  * *Nightly and Canary builds* will often cause issues. If the issue doesn't occur in the latest dev, beta or stable version of your browser, please file a report in the issue tracker for the browser instead ([http://crbug.com/new Chrome] [https://bugreport.apple.com/ Safari]).

== Do you still have a problem after trying the above? ==

It's likely that someone already told us about the problem!  Please [http://code.google.com/p/adblockforchrome/issues/ search existing reports] for one similar to yours.

If you find a similar report:
   # Please *leave a comment* if you have further information.
   # You can click the *star* on the top left to be emailed when there are updates.

And if you didn't find a match when you [http://code.google.com/p/adblockforchrome/issues/ searched existing reports], please file a [http://code.google.com/p/adblockforchrome/issues/entry?template=Defect bug report] or a [http://code.google.com/p/adblockforchrome/issues/entry?template=Feature%20request%20from%20user feature request].  *Incomplete reports will be ignored*, so be sure not to leave any questions unanswered!  Sorry, but there are 5 million of you and 5 of us; we're overwhelmed :)