#summary How to translate AdBlock into your own language

!AdBlock supports translation into many languages.  But there is only one problem: we don't speak all languages ourselves. We need your help!

Here's how to translate !AdBlock into your own language:

= Don't waste your time =

Make sure that Chrome [http://code.google.com/chrome/extensions/i18n.html#locales-supported supports your language code].  If you don't know your language's code, you can [http://ftp.ics.uci.edu/pub/ietf/http/related/iso639.txt look it up]. If it's not supported, we can only use your translation for Safari.

Also, check the [http://code.google.com/p/adblockforchrome/issues/list?can=1&q=type%3Dl10n+-status:duplicate&colspec=ID+Status+Summary list of existing translations] to make sure !AdBlock isn't already translated into your language.  If it is, you can leave a comment on the list entry saying you'd like to help, and the original translator or we will talk to you.

= OK, let's translate! =

First, [http://code.google.com/p/adblockforchrome/issues/entry?template=Offer%20to%20translate add your language] to the list of translations (so that two people don't start the same translation at the same time).

Then right click [http://adblockforchrome.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/_locales/en/messages.json this link] and download the English messages.json file. Open that file (in any text editor, like Notepad), and you'll see a lot of entries that look like this one:
{{{
  "updatefromoldversion": {
    "message": "You are using an old version of AdBlock. Please first $updatelink$ the newest version of AdBlock",
    "description": "Instruction telling the user to click a link to update AdBlock",
    "placeholders": {
      "updatelink": {
        "content": "$1download$2",
        "example": "<a href='http://chrome.com/update_here.ctx'>download</a>"
      }
    }
  },
}}}

Every string on *a line that starts with "message" or "content"* needs to be replaced with a translation.

However, there are a few exceptions:
 * The word {{{AdBlock}}} should not be translated -- it is a name.
 * Words wrapped between {{{$}}} should not be translated -- they refer to placeholders, such as {{{$updatelink$}}} referring to the {{{"updatelink"}}} placeholder above.
 * Make sure to leave {{{$1}}}, {{{$2}}}, etc in your translation -- they are placeholders for strings that !AdBlock will insert, such as "{{{<a href='...'>}}}" and "{{{</a>}}}" above.

The above example might look like this after you translated it:
{{{
  "updatefromoldversion": {
    "message": "Ya $updatelink$ iss var gut so yoo do eet to AdBlock noww",
    "description": "Instruction telling the user to click a link to update AdBlock",
    "placeholders": {
      "updatelink": {
        "content": "$1get der file all quicklike$2",
        "example": "<a href='http://chrome.com/update_here.ctx'>download</a>"
      }
    }
  },
}}}

Note some things about my (pretend) translation:
  * I didn't translate "description" or "example" (those are to help the translator)
  * I didn't translate "updatelink" (that is a placeholder)
  * I translated one word in "content" into five, but made sure to keep the $1 and $2
  * I moved $updatelink$ earlier in "message" because it sounded better there in my language

If a "message" or "content" string contains {{{<b>}}}, {{{<i>}}}, {{{<a>}}}, or {{{<br/>}}}, your translation should as well:
 * Make text *bold* by wrapping it in {{{<b>}}} and {{{</b>}}} like {{{<b>Hi!</b>}}}
 * Make text _italic_ by wrapping it in {{{<i>}}} and {{{</i>}}} like {{{<i>Hi!</i>}}}
 * Make text a [# hyperlink or a button] by wrapping it in {{{<a>}}} and {{{</a>}}} like {{{<a>click me</a>}}}
 * Add newlines by adding {{{<br/>}}} like {{{First line<br/>Second line}}}

Common pitfalls
 * *Never* use {{{"}}} (quotation mark) in a string, or it will break. Use {{{\"}}} which gets turned into {{{"}}} for you, or just use {{{'}}} (apostrophe) instead.
 * Save your file as *UTF-8* to prevent issues with special characters (like Korean characters or characters with accents, like {{{ç}}} or {{{ë}}})

= Finished? =

Just attach your file to your entry in the [http://code.google.com/p/adblockforchrome/issues/list?can=1&q=type%3Dl10n+-status:duplicate&colspec=ID+Status+Summary list of translations].  We'll take care of the rest!

= Maintaining =

When there is an issue with your lists, for example a string is missing, we will add it to the list below. Isn't your list shown, then no issues are present.

{{{
===== \_locales\zh_CN\messages.json =====
Missing translations: blacklistclickmessage, contextmenuexcludedomain, contextmenuhideanything, contextmenuhidethis, pleaserestart, showcontextmenus

===== \_locales\pl\messages.json =====
Missing translations: contextmenuexcludedomain, contextmenuhideanything, contextmenuhidethis

===== \_locales\mk\messages.json =====
Missing translations: blacklistclickmessage, contextmenuexcludedomain, contextmenuhideanything, contextmenuhidethis, pleaserestart, showcontextmenus

===== \_locales\ko\messages.json =====
Missing translations: contextmenuexcludedomain, contextmenuhideanything, contextmenuhidethis

===== \_locales\it\messages.json =====
Missing translations: contextmenuexcludedomain, contextmenuhideanything, contextmenuhidethis

===== \_locales\hu\messages.json =====
Missing translations: contextmenuexcludedomain, contextmenuhideanything, contextmenuhidethis

===== \_locales\fr\messages.json =====
Missing translations: contextmenuexcludedomain, contextmenuhideanything, contextmenuhidethis

===== \_locales\el\messages.json =====
Missing translations: contextmenuexcludedomain, contextmenuhideanything, contextmenuhidethis

===== \_locales\de\messages.json =====
Missing translations: contextmenuexcludedomain, contextmenuhideanything, contextmenuhidethis

===== \_locales\cs\messages.json =====
Missing translations: contextmenuexcludedomain, contextmenuhideanything, contextmenuhidethis
}}}


And most importantly...

= Thanks! =