#summary AdBlock Support
#labels Restrict-AddWikiComment-Commit,Featured

= !AdBlock Support =

Support is equally available to all users, whether or not you pay for !AdBlock.

== Payment-related support (payments, refunds, subscriptions, receipts, etc) ==

Please *read the [PaymentsFAQ Payments FAQ] first*.  It probably answers your question.<br>
If not, email Michael (the creator of !AdBlock) at [mailto:payments@getadblock.com payments@getadblock.com] for payment-related support.

<br>

== Everything else ==

*Are you seeing an ad?*
  * !AdBlock is [http://getadblock.com/bugs not installed/not blocking *any* ads].
  * Ads pop up when I put my mouse on [http://getadblock.com/faq/textenhance underlined words.]
  * [http://getadblock.com/faq/adreport I found an ad] that !AdBlock does not block.

*Is !AdBlock broken?*
  * A website [http://getadblock.com/faq/toomuchblocked looks wrong or has the wrong parts blocked].
  * !AdBlock is [http://getadblock.com/bugs not working correctly or is missing a feature].

*Are you unhappy with !AdBlock?*
  * I would like to [http://getadblock.com/faq/uninstall uninstall].
  * I would like a [PaymentsFAQ#How_do_I_get_a_refund? refund].

*None of the above?*  You can:
  * read the [FrequentlyAskedQuestions General FAQ].  *<font color="red">Please do this before emailing.</font>* I bet it answers your question!
  * send truly private concerns (not questions about how to use Adblock!) to support {at} getadblock.com. But you should probably instead:
  * email the [mailto:adblockforchrome-discuss@googlegroups.com support group], and you will be helped promptly.